





Network Working Group                                          K. Patel
Internet Draft                                                  E. Chen
Intended Status: Standards Track                   B. Venkatachalapathy
Expiration Date: December 25, 2013                        Cisco Systems
                                                          June 24, 2013


              Enhanced Route Refresh Capability for BGP-4
            draft-ietf-idr-bgp-enhanced-route-refresh-04.txt


Status of this Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted to IETF in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that
   other groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-
   Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/1id-abstracts.html

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html

   This Internet-Draft will expire on December 25, 2013.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2013 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors. All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document. Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.



draft-ietf-idr-bgp-enhanced-route-refresh-04.txt                [Page 1]





             draft-ietf-idr-bgp-enhanced-route-refresh-04.txt


Abstract

   In this document we enhance the existing BGP route refresh mechanisms
   to provide for the demarcation of the beginning and the ending of a
   route refresh.  The enhancement can be used to facilitate on-line,
   non-disruptive consistency validations of BGP routing updates.


1. Introduction

   It is sometimes necessary to perform routing consistency validations
   such as checking for possible missing withdraws between BGP speakers
   [RFC4271].  Currently such validations typically involve off-line,
   manual operations which can be tedious and time consuming.

   In this document we enhance the existing BGP route refresh mechanisms
   [RFC2918] to provide for the demarcation of the beginning and the
   ending of a route refresh (which refers to the complete re-
   advertisement of the Adj-RIB-Out to a peer, subject to routing
   policies).  The enhancement can be used to facilitate on-line, non-
   disruptive consistency validation of BGP routing updates.


1.1. Specification of Requirements

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
   document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC2119].


2. Protocol Extensions

   The BGP protocol extensions introduced in this document include the
   definition of a new BGP capability, named "Enhanced Route Refresh
   Capability", and the specification of the message subtypes for the
   ROUTE-REFRESH message.


2.1. Enhanced Route Refresh Capability

   The "Enhanced Route Refresh Capability" is a new BGP capability
   [RFC5492].  The Capability Code for this capability is specified in
   the IANA Considerations section of this document. The Capability
   Length field of this capability is zero.

   By advertising this capability to a peer, a BGP speaker conveys to
   the peer that the speaker supports the message subtypes for the
   ROUTE-REFRESH message and the related procedures described in this



draft-ietf-idr-bgp-enhanced-route-refresh-04.txt                [Page 2]





             draft-ietf-idr-bgp-enhanced-route-refresh-04.txt


   document.


2.2. Subtypes for ROUTE-REFRESH Message

   The "Reserved" field of the ROUTE-REFRESH message specified in
   [RFC2918] is re-defined as the "Message Subtype" with the following
   values:


          0 - Normal route refresh request [RFC2918]
              with/without ORF [RFC5291]
          1 - Demarcation of the beginning of a route refresh
          2 - Demarcation of the ending of a route refresh


   The use of the message subtypes is described in the Operations
   section.


3. Operations

   A BGP speaker that support the message subtypes for the ROUTE-REFRESH
   message and the related procedures SHOULD advertise the "Enhanced
   Route Refresh Capability".

   The following procedures are applicable only if a BGP speaker has
   received the "Enhanced Route Refresh Capability" from a peer.

   Before the speaker starts a route refresh that is either initiated
   locally, or in response to a "normal route refresh request" from the
   peer, the speaker MUST send a ROUTE-REFRESH message with the
   specified message subtype to mark the beginning of the route refresh.
   After the speaker completes the re-advertisement of the entire Adj-
   RIB-Out to the peer, it MUST send a ROUTE-REFRESH message with the
   specified message subtype to mark the ending of the route refresh.

   Conceptually the "entire ADJ-RIB-Out" for a peer in this section
   refers to all the route entries in the "ADJ-RIB-Out" for the peer at
   the start of the route refresh.  When a route entry in the "ADJ-RIB-
   Out" changes, the advertisement of the modified route entry (instead
   of the snapshot entry) would suffice.

   In processing a ROUTE-REFRESH message from a peer, the BGP speaker
   MUST examine the "message subtype" field of the message and take the
   appropriate actions.  The BGP speaker SHALL use the demarcations of
   the beginning and the ending of a route refresh to perform
   consistency validations of the updates received from the peer.  All



draft-ietf-idr-bgp-enhanced-route-refresh-04.txt                [Page 3]





             draft-ietf-idr-bgp-enhanced-route-refresh-04.txt


   the routes that were not re-advertised in the route refresh MUST be
   purged, and SHOULD be logged for further analysis.


4. Error Handling

   This document defines a new NOTIFICATION error code:

     Error Code     Symbolic Name

       <TBD>        ROUTE-REFRESH Message Error


   The following error subcodes are defined as well:

     Subcode        Symbolic Name

        1           Invalid Message Length


   The error handling specified in this section is applicable only when
   a BGP speaker has received the "Enhanced Route Refresh Capability"
   from a peer.

   When the BGP speaker detects an error while processing a ROUTE-
   REFRESH message with a non-zero "Message Subtype" field, it MUST send
   a NOTIFICATION message with Error Code "ROUTE-REFRESH Message Error".
   The Data field of the NOTIFICATION message MUST contain the complete
   ROUTE-REFRESH message.

   If the length, excluding the fixed-size message header, of the ROUTE-
   REFRESH message with Message Subtype 1 and 2 is not 4, then the error
   subcode is set to "Invalid Message Length".


5. IANA Considerations

   This document defines the Enhanced Route Refresh Capability for BGP.
   The Capability Code 70 has been assigned by the IANA.

   In addition, this document defines an NOTIFICATION error code and
   several error subcodes for the ROUTE-REFRESH message.  They need to
   be registered with the IANA.








draft-ietf-idr-bgp-enhanced-route-refresh-04.txt                [Page 4]





             draft-ietf-idr-bgp-enhanced-route-refresh-04.txt


6. Security Considerations

   This extension to BGP does not change the underlying security issues.


7. Acknowledgments

   The authors would like to thank Pedro Marques, Pradosh Mohapatra,
   Robert Raszuk, Pranav Mehta, and Shyam Sethuram for discussions and
   review.  The authors would like to thank Martin Djernaes, Jeff haas,
   Ilya Varlashkin, Rob Shakir, Paul Jakma, Jie Dong, Qing Zeng, Albert
   Tian, and Jakob Heitz for their review and comments.


8. Normative References

   [RFC4271]   Rekhter, Y., Ed., Li, T., Ed., and S. Hares, Ed., "A
               Border Gateway Protocol 4 (BGP-4)", RFC 4271, January
               2006.

   [RFC2918]   Chen, E., "Route Refresh Capability for BGP-4",
               RFC 2918, September 2000.

   [RFC5492]   Scudder, J. and R. Chandra, "Capabilities Advertisement
               with BGP-4", RFC 5492, February 2009.

   [RFC5291]   Chen, E., and Rekhter, Y., "Outbound Route Filtering
               Capability for BGP-4", RFC 5291, August 2008.

   [RFC2119]   Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
               Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.


9. Authors' Addresses

   Keyur Patel
   Cisco Systems

   Email: keyupate@cisco.com

   Enke Chen
   Cisco Systems

   Email: enkechen@cisco.com

   Balaji Venkatachalapathy
   Cisco Systems




draft-ietf-idr-bgp-enhanced-route-refresh-04.txt                [Page 5]





             draft-ietf-idr-bgp-enhanced-route-refresh-04.txt


   Email: bvenkata@cisco.com


















































draft-ietf-idr-bgp-enhanced-route-refresh-04.txt                [Page 6]


